DWiki now supports comments on pages; comments are themselves written
in DWikiText. Currently pages have to be specifically enabled for
this; in the future I will have a better global or semi-global
mechanism for this.
{{CutShort}}

Pages are enabled for comments with !{{CanComment}}, which takes
optional arguments ala !{{Restricted}} to say who can or cannot
comment. Comments must come from logged in people. If you want a
globally commentable DWiki, enable a default user.

Like blog-style directory rendering, actual comment rendering (and
even the comment form handling itself, preview included, except for
the bit where we post comments) is handled by renderers and
templates.

Only files can be commented on, not directories.

Comments are stored in a separate directory hierarchy, the
_commentdir_ hierarchy, as files in a directory that corresponds to
the page they're attached to. Comments are given meaningless internal
names based on their contents (including user and ip, but not
including time); this handily guarantees unique file names for
different comments *plus* suppressing duplicate comments from the same
place and person. (I could suppress entirely duplicate posts if I
wanted to change the storage scheme a bit.)

The time a comment was made isn't stored in the comment's data file;
it is implicit in the timestamp of the file. Moral: make sure that
your backups preserve file modtime, because otherwise if you restore a
DWiki everything gets jumbled up.

As a safety measure, no wikitext macro works in comment wikitext.

Comments don't have an independant existence, and as a consequence you
cannot see their wikitext through DWiki; you have to look at the raw
filesystem version. Nor can they be deleted (through the web) or
edited after posting.

You can't see comments on pages that you can't see, and you can't
write comments for such pages either.
