DWiki now has a simple hierarchical way of handling access to pages
for various things (both access *and* commentability), so you can give
(or take away) permissions for things to entire directory trees at a
shot. We use a simple implementation where directories can have a
magic file called ((__access)), which creates default permissions for
everything under them.
{{CutShort}}

[[The file|__access]] is an ordinary page, but it should contain appropriate
invocations of !{{Restricted}} and/or !{{CanComment}} (and anything of
this nature that I add later). To keep clutter down, ((__access)) is
not shown in the blogdir view of directories.

Checking stops at the first page that has the type of access control,
so subdirectories or pages can grant permissions that parent
directories have taken away. ChrisSiebenmann currently considers this
a feature, although you may disagree. (This way is more efficient
although less like searching Unix paths. Hmm. The arguments for
changing this rise.)

Hierarchical access control interacts oddly with !{{CutShort}} pages.
If a cut-short page has access control below the cut that would deny
access and is being viewed in a context where the cut happens, then
the access is allowed because DWiki decides that the page had
something to say about authentication and the answer in this context
was 'sure, go ahead'.

The ((__access)) page can have actual content if you want, but I
suspect that people are not going to be looking at it too often.

At the moment, access control continues to apply only to viewing
files; viewing directories is not access controlled. This may change
as ChrisSiebenmann is of two minds about it.

~~Important note:~~ things like all-pages and recent-changes continue
to show page names for pages that are not accessible, and probably
always will. Therefor, don't put anything sensitive into the actual
names of pages. (This is unlikely to ever change for reasons that
don't fit in this margin.)
